# ufobot
I’ve always been intrigued by UFO sightings and the wild things that people claim to see, so I thought it’d be fun to build a bot that informs the user of the most recent UFO sighting. Obviously, knowing where the last UFO was seen and what it looked like is vital information to a functioning democracy - I hope my bot will satisfy that pressing and unfulfilled need. The truth is out there and as a journalist it’s my job to seek it. My UFO Bot tells the user the most recent UFO sighting, including the date, shape of the UFO, city where it was seen and the abbreviated description written by the person who reported it. The UFO Bot also produces a URL link to a map that shows where the user is in relation to the UFO sighting. 
I started writing the UFO Bot by focusing on the most basic function of data collection from the National UFO Reporting Center database. I wrote a function that pulls the top entry in the table of February reports. I decided that would be the best place to start, because the top entry is the most recent entry. I used BeautifulSoup to parse the HTML of the database’s table where the UFO sightings are kept. Because the HTML for the National UFO Database website is so poorly written, at first my function only printed a blank string. But my code didn’t produce any errors, so I reasoned that the issue was that my script couldn’t see the data for some reason. It turned out that in National UFO database’s HTML, there was a line of code that caused my script to think that the HTML on the page ended before the table of data even began. I resolved this issue by using splitlines to turn the HTML into rows and then started my data collection after the row 20 – effectively skipping over the bad HTML. This became the first part of my UFO bot, ufo_scraper, which only deals with parsing and reading the data. 
My second Python script, bot.py, takes that data parsed from ufo_scraper and arranges it in a readable format for the user. First, it sorts the ufo_scraper data and only extracts the most recent sighting. I did this so that the UFO Bot grabs the most recent entry even if for some reason the top entry deviated from the pattern. From the most recent UFO sighting, my make_story function produces a coherent sentence with all the information a user could possibly want about the latest UFO sighting, including a short snippet of the wonderful description. I use Google’s Map API to plot where the user’s location is and the location of the UFO sighting. The make_story function produces a URL that users can copy and paste into their browsers. 
I hope to add several features to the bot, or make a couple bots that do slightly different things with the UFO data. I’d like to have the bot list all of the UFO sightings within the user’s state. I’d also like to be able to sort by proximity and show the closest UFO sightings to the user within the last month. Hopefully these additions lead us closer to the truth. 
